=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Actium::O::Cmd - Command line interface routines for Actium

=head1 VERSION

This documentation refers to version 0.011

=head1 SYNOPSIS

mycommand:

 use Actium::O::Cmd;

 Actium::O::Cmd->new(
   commandpath => $0,
   system_name => 'this_system',
   subcommands => {
     do_something  => 'DoSomething',
     something     => \'do_something',
     another_thing => 'AnotherThing',
   },
 );

Actium/Cmd/DoSomething.pm:

 package Actium::Cmd::DoSomething 0.001;

 sub OPTIONS {
    my ($class, $env) = @_;
    return { spec => myopt , description => 'My option' };
 }

 sub HELP {
    my ($class, $env) = @_;
    say "mycommand do_something - does something"
 }

 sub START {
    my ($class, $env) = @_;
    my $argument = $env->argv(0);
    my $subcommand = $env->subcommand;
    my $command = $env->command;

    print "$command $subcommand to $argument"
    print " with option -myopt" if $env->option('myopt');
 }
 1;

Then, at a shell:

 $ mycommand something myarg -myopt
 "Executing DoSomething to myart with option -myopt"

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Actium::O::Cmd is an object representing everything associated with the
command-line interface for the Actium system.

The idea is that this object encapulates everything such as terminal
input and output and command-line arguments and options, and other ways
of configuring programs.  It represents the environment in which the
program runs.  (Not to be confused with the system environment, perl's
C<%ENV>, which is a small part of what this program does.)

In theory there could also be other environments that could be
presented (Actium::O::GUI, Actium::O::Web, or whatever), although none
exist at the moment.  The basic idea comes from L<Mark Jason Dominus's
article on the Moonpig billing
system|http://blog.plover.com/prog/Moonpig.html>, although that
encompasses much more than Actium::O::Cmd does.  Typically this object
is called C<$env> in modules (as in Moonpig), since there could in
theory be more than one kind of environment.

Actium::O::Cmd is a Moose object. This may surprise people who are used
to thinking of Moose as slow and inappropriate for command-line
programs. Speed was not a significant factor in the design.

=head2 Basic structure of Actium::O::Cmd

Actium::O::Cmd is designed to create commands with subcommands and
which handle command-line options and command-line arguments.

It works this way:

=over

=item *

The executable script is run, and passes Actium::O::Cmd information on
valid subcommands and other information about the system.

=item *

Actium::O::Cmd identifies which command is selected, if any. It
displays usage information for the script if requested or if there's an
error.

=item *

Otherwise it loads the proper subcommand. It asks the subcommand which
options are requested, and processes the command line and other
configuration sources to set the options properly.

=item *

Then it either runs the subcommand's routine, or alternatively asks it
to display its help information.

=back

=head1 CONSTRUCTION

The Actium::O::Cmd object is constructed using a call to
Actium::O::Cmd->new() from the main script.

The "new" call takes the following named parameters, which can be
passed as a hash reference or as a plain hash (in other words, a simple
list of name => value pairs).

=head2 Required parameters

=head3 system_name

The system name is intended to be an overall name for the system. In
practice, it will probably always be "actium", but it could be
anything. It is used for determining the name of the configuration
files and any system environment variables that are used.

=head3 commandpath

The command path is used for determining the name of this command,
which itself is primarily intended for display to the user. In normal
usage it should be set to perl's C<$0> variable (aka C<$PROGRAM_NAME>
under L<English.pm|English>).

=head3 subcommands

This should be set to a hash reference. The keys are the names of the
subcommands, and the values are names of modules under the
C<Actium::Cmd> namespace.

If the value is a reference to a scalar, that scalar is taken as the
name of another subcommand. This allows several aliases to be made of
the same subcommand.

So, for example, if passed

 subcommand {
    fred      => 'Frederick',
    freddy    => \'fred',
    sam_spade => 'Sam::Spade',
 },

Then Actium::O::Cmd would use the module C<Actium::Cmd::Frederick> if
either 'fred' or 'freddy' were supplied, and use the module
C<Actium::Cmd::Sam::Spade> if 'sam_spade' were supplied.

Note that the value of the C<command> attribute will always be the
non-alias name, even if the alias is specified.

The value 'help' is used by Actium::O::Cmd itself so no subcommand can
be called 'help'.

=head2 Optional parameters

=head3 sysenv

This should be a hash reference.  If not specified, it will be set to a
I<copy> of the system environment (perl's C<%ENV>). As such, it should
be used only for reading the environment and not for passing data to
child processes.  (Functions respecting C<sysenv> could be added to
Actium::O::Cmd.)

=head3 argv

This should be an array reference. If not specified, it will be set to
a copy of the command-line arguments (perl's C<@ARGV>).

=head3 home_folder

This should be a string representing a path on disk (which will be
passed to Actium::O::Folder), representing the user's home folder. If
not specified, it will be set to the user's home folder (as determined
by L<the File::HomeDir module|File::HomeDir>.

=head3 bin

This should also be a string representing a path on disk (which, again,
will be passed to Actium::O::Folder). This represents the folder where
the script is stored. If not specified, it will be set to C<$Bin> from
L<the FindBin module|FindBin>.

=head1 SUBCOMMAND MODULES

Subcommand modules will be found in the "Actium::Cmd" namespace.
Actium::O::Cmd will load those modules and invoke them if selected by
the user.

Subcommand modules must support a START() method and can optionally
support HELP() and OPTIONS() methods.  Methods are invoked using method
lookup (so could theoretically be inherited from parents or composed
from roles).

All these methods are passed the Actium::O::Cmd object itself as the
only argument.

=head3 START()

The START() method is invoked when the module is intended to be run.
Normally it contains the procedural code that does whatever it is the
module is supposed to do.

=head3 HELP()

The HELP() method is used when the user requests help. It is invoked
prior to the display of command-line options, and normally it would
display reasonably brief information about what the module is and how
it should be invoked.

=head3 OPTIONS()

The OPTIONS() method is how modules request that Actium::O::Cmd do
options handling. The method should return a list of option
specifications and/or option packages. See "OPTION PROCESSING" below.

=head1 ATTRIBUTES

All attributes are read-only. For attributes specific to particular
option packages, see "Option packages" below.

=head3 home_folder

An Actium::O::Folder object representing the user's home folder; see
"home_folder" above, under "Construction".

=head3 bin

An Actium::O::Folder object representing the folder where the script is
located; see "bin" above, under "Construction".

=head3 config

An Actium::Storage::Ini object representing a configuration file. The
configuration file is the system name with a period in front, and an
.ini extension (so, if the system name is "actium", the configuration
file will be ".actium.ini"). See Actium::Storage::Ini for details.

=head3 commandpath

A file specification to the script. See "commandpath" above, under
"Construction".

=head3 subcommand

The subcommand that was chosen on the command line. So if the script is
invoked as "myscript do_something" then subcommand will be
"do_something".

=head3 system_name

The system name passed to the object in construction. See "system_name"
above, under "Construction".

=head3 module

The package name of the module that is associated with this subcommand.
If the "do_something" subcommand is associated with "DoSomething" in
the "subcommands" hash passed in construction, then the module will be
"Actium::Cmd::DoSomething".

=head3 crier

This is an Actium::O::Crier object.  At the moment it will be the
result from default_crier(). See "Actium::O::Crier" for more
information.

=head3 command

This is the name of the script (derived from "commandpath").

=head3 argv

This returns a list of the command-line arguments. The command name,
subcommand name, and command-line options are removed.

=head3 original_argv

This returns a list of the command-line arguments as originally
provided to Actium::O::Cmd. The command name, subcommand name, and
command-line options are preserved.

=head1 OTHER METHODS

=head3 be_quiet

This method sets the "quiet" command-line option to be true, and sets
the crier object to not display ordinary text.

This allows some modules, which would otherwise be noisy, to suppress
unwanted information.

=head3 prompt

This will ask the user to type a value on the terminal, using the
IO::Prompter module.

 $value = $env->prompt($prompt, $hide)

The first parameter, $prompt, is the message that will be displayed on
the screen. (It is passed to IO::Prompter intact; for gory details on
how newlines and spaces are added or removed, see that module.) If the
second parameter, $hide, is a true value, then what the user types will
be hidden from view and asterisks will be shown instead, in the usual
convention for getting a password from the user. Also, the IO::Prompter
history value will be suppressed.

=head3 sysenv

The sysenv() method fetches a value from the system environment
(normally perl's C<%ENV>, see "sysenv" above. It fetches just one
value:

 $path = $env->sysenv('PATH')

=head3 option and option_is_set

The option() method provides the value of the command-line option
given, and returns undef if it is not set.

 $color = $env->option('color');

To distinguish between an option that is present but has an undefined
value, and an option that is not present at all, the option_is_set()
method can be used. It will return true if it is set, and false
otherwise.

See "Option Processing" below.

=head1 OPTION PROCESSING

Actium::O::Cmd is designed to handle configuration and options
processing from several sources. The idea is to allow the user to
specify in many different ways the configuration of the program.

The program looks for the values in the following order:

=over

=item 1.

Command-line options.

=item 2.

System enviornment variables.

=item 3.

A configuration file.

=item 4.

A fallback value provided by the module.

=item 5.

The user will be prompted for a value.

=back

=head1 OPTION SPECIFICATIONS

The OPTIONS() method in each subcommand module should return a list of
option specifications and/or packages.

An option specification is a hash reference, each specifying a single
option. (An older array-reference style of option specification is
deprecated.)

=head2 Required option specification keys

=head3 spec

This is a command-line option specification, as defined in
L<Getopt::Long|Getopt::Long>.  Any type of option that can be specified
in Getopt::Long can be used, and aliases can be used.

To specify options that take list or hash values, it is necessary to
indicate this by appending an "@" or "%" sign after the type. See
L<Getopt::Long/"Summary of Option Specifications"> for more
information. However, only command-line options will actually return an
array or hash; environment variables, configuration files, and user
prompts will only return scalars.

Note that the default configuration for Getopt::Long is used, so (for
example) bundling is off and options can be abbreviated to their
shortest unique abbreviation. See  L<"Configuring Getopt::Long" in
Getopt::Long|Getopt::Long/"Configuring Getopt::Long">. A single hyphen
is used to introduce all options.

Duplicate names or aliases will cause program termination, so do not
specify a name twice, or one that is present in an active option
package (including the default option package).

An option whose name begins with an underscore will not be displayed as
part of the command-line option usage.

=head3 description

This is a human-readable short description to be used in displaying
lists of options to users.

=head2 Optional option specification keys

=head3 envvar

This specifies an environment variable to be used if no option is
present on the command line. The system name is prepended to this name,
along with an underscore, and the name is forced to be capitalized.
Thus, if the system name is "actium" and the environment variable
specified is "foo", then the value will be taken from the "ACTIUM_FOO"
environment variable. (To avoid errors, the system name will not be
added if it is already present: envvar => 'ACTIUM_FOO' will look for
'ACTIUM_FOO' not 'ACTIUM_ACTIUM_FOO'.)

=head3 config_section and config_key

If config_key is present, a value under that key will be searched for
in the configuration file (see "config" above).  If 'config_section' is
specified, it will be searched for in that section; otherwise it will
use the root section.

=head3 fallback

If present, this will be used as the value if nothing is found using
any other method.

=head3 display_default

If set to a true value, a default value will be added to the
description of the option in the command-line option usage information.
The default value is the value that would be used if the option is not
specified on the command line -- either the value from the environment
variable, configuration file, or fallback value, in that order.

=head3 callback

If a code reference is provided, after the option is set, this code wll
be executed. The value of the option will be the first argument passed.

=head3 prompt

If this is set to a true value, it will prompt the user for the value,
displaying this string, if there is no other source for the value. A
colon is added to the prompt string if not already present.

=head3 prompthide

If this is set to a true value and if the user is prompted for a value,
asterisks will be displayed instead of echoing back what the user
types.

=head3 no_command

If set to a true value, will not look for the value on the command
line.  Presumably one of the other sources would be specified
(otherwise it would be pointless).

=head1 OPTION PACKAGES

Groups of options, generally shared among several modules, are
collected in option packages.  If a non-reference is part of the list
returned from the OPTIONS() method, it is taken as the name of an
option package.

In addition, the 'default' option package is present for every
subcommand.

When given here, the enviornment variable is given without the system
name, but the system name must be present in the actual environment.
(So, if the system name is 'actium' and the environment variable is
given as 'TERM_QUIET', the actual environment variable used would be
'ACTIUM_TERM_QUIET'.)

A negatable option allows the command-line to override a setting from
the environment or the configuration file, by specifying 'no' before
the option name.  For example, -noquiet will turn off the quiet setting
if it was set by the system_name_TERM_QUIET environment variable.

=head2 'default' package

The default package has options regarding terminal display.

=head3 option: -help

=head3 option: -?

The help, or ? option, is an alternative way of asking for help from
Actium::O::Cmd. Using it is effectively the same as using the help
subcommand.  (Note that a command shell may use ? as a wildcard
character and not pass it through to Actium::O::Cmd.)

=head3 option: -quiet

=head3 environment: TERM_QUIET

=head3 config key: 'quiet' in section 'Terminal'

This will stop Actium::O::Crier from outputting most text (it sets
"maxdepth" to 0). See Actium::O::Crier for more information. Submodules
may also inspect this option and turn off some information display.
(Negatable)

The be_quiet() method can be used by a submodule to turn this option
on.

=head3 option: -termcolor

=head3 environment: TERM_COLOR

=head3 config key: 'color' in section 'Terminal'

Actium::O::Crier will output control codes to the terminal that will
colorize output.  See Actium::O::Crier for more information. Submodules
may also inspect this option and turn on color display. (Negatable)

=head3 option: -progress

=head3 environment variable: TERM_PROGRESS

=head3 config key: 'progress' in section 'Terminal'

Actium::O::Crier will output dynamic progress indications (from the
"prog" or "over" methods).  See Actium::O::Crier for more information.
Submodules may also inspect this option and act accordingly.

This is a negatable option, but it has a fallback value of 1, so will
be on unless specified otherwise.

=head2 'actiumdb' package

The 'actiumdb' package has options allowing the specification of the
database name, user name, and password to access the Actium database.
See Actium::O::Files::ActiumDB for more information.

When this package is requested, it will create a new attribute in
Actium::O::Cmd called 'actiumdb', which will return the Actium database
object.

=head3 option: -db_user

=head3 environment: DB_USER

=head3 config key: 'db_user' in section 'ActiumDB'

The username to access the database.

=head3 option: -db_password

=head3 environment: DB_PASSWORD

=head3 config key: 'db_password' in section 'ActiumDB'

The username to access the database.

=head3 option: -db_name

=head3 environment: DB_NAME

=head3 config key: 'db_name' in section 'ActiumDB'

The name of the ODBC driver entry for this database.

=head2 'signup' and 'signup_with_old' packages

These packages allow the specification of Actium::O::Folders::Signup
objects. See that module for more information.

The 'signup' package only allows for the specification of the current
signup, while 'signup_with_old' allows for the specification of the
current signup as well as a previous signup.

If these packages are chosen, Actium::O::Cmd attributes called "signup"
and "oldsignup" will return the object representing the current signup
and the object representing the previous signup, respectively.

=head3 option: -base

=head3 environment: BASE

=head3 config key: 'base' in section 'Signup'

The base directory where signups are found.

If none of these are set, Actium::O::Folders::Signup uses the C<bin>
attribute to find the script's folder, and sets the base folder to
"signups" in the script folder's parent folder.  In other words, it's
something like "/Actium/bin/../signups". In the normal case where the
"bin" folder is in the same folder as the Actium data this means it
will all work fine without any specification of the base folder. If
that is not the case, an error will be generated.

=head3 option: -signup

=head3 environment: SIGNUP

=head3 config key: 'signup' in section 'Signup'

The data for each signup is stored in a subfolder of the base folder.
This folder is usually named after the period of time when the signup
becomes effective ("w08" meaning "Winter 2008", for example).

=head3 option: -cache

=head3 environment: CACHE

=head3 config key: 'cache' in section 'Signup'

A folder where local cache files are stored.  The fallback value is a
directory called '.' plus the system name (so, if the system name is
"actium", then  ".actium") in the user's home folder.

=head3 option: -oldsignup

=head3 option: -o

=head3 environment: OLDSIGNUP

=head3 config key: 'oldsignup' in section 'Signup'

This is in the 'signup_with_old' package. It is like "signup," but
representing the previous signup. This is used for comparing signups to
see what has changed.

=head3 option: -oldbase

=head3 option: -ob

=head3 environment: OLDBASE

=head3 config key: 'oldsignup' in section 'Signup'

This is in the 'signup_with_old' package. It is like "base" but it is
the folder where the old signup is stored, in the event it is different
from the base of the current signup. If not specified it will be the
same as the "base" option, since the signups are usually stored in the
same folder.

=head2 'geonames' package

This package is used for geocoding using the geonames.org server. See
L<Actium::Geo|Actium::Geo> for more information.

=head3 option: -geonames_username

=head3 environment: GEONAMES_USERNAME

=head3 config key: 'username' in section 'Geonames'

The user name for the Geonames API. If not supplied, will prompt the
user for a name.

=head2 'flickr' package

This package is used for accessing the Flickr api.  If selected, this
package will add an attribute "flickr_auth" to Actium::O::Cmd, which is
an Actium::O::Photos::Flickr::Auth object representing the Flickr
authorization. See Actium::O::Photos::Flickr::Auth for more
information.

=head3 option: flickr_key

=head3 environment: FLICKR_KEY

=head3 config key: 'key' in section 'Flickr'

The "key" required to use the Flickr API. If not provided, the user
will be prompted for the key.

=head3 option: flickr_secret

=head3 environment: FLICKR_SECRET

=head3 config key: 'secret' in section 'Flickr'

The "secret" required to use the Flickr API. If not provided, the user
will be prompted for the key.

=head1 USER HELP

Actium::O::Cmd also provides some simple user help capabilities. They
can be invoked in two ways: via the "help" subcommand, or the "-help"
(or "-?") option.

If no subcommand is specified, or if an unrecognized subcommand is
found on the command line, then a brief list of subcommands available
is output to the terminal.

If a subcommand is specified, then first the HELP() method from the
appropriate module is invoked. After that, a brief summary of the
options is displayed, using the "description" from the option
specification.  If "display_default" was specified, then the default
will be displayed in the option summary. (Note that this default is
whatever will be used if no option is specified on the command line. It
will display a value found in an environment variable or configuration
file, for example.)

All option names are supplied, even aliases, although the description
of every alias is just "Same as" followed by the name of the main name.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

=over

=item Help not implemented for...

The user requested help for a particular subcommand, but no HELP()
method was found in the module.  Command-line option usage will be
displayed anyway.

=item Can't output help text: ...

An system error occurred while sending help text to a buffer.

=item Couldn't load module $module: ...

An error occurred trying to load the $module module.

=item Internal error (bad reference) in subcommand $subcommand

The "subcommands" argument to the constructor tried to set an alias,
but the main name was not found.

=item Unrecognized subcommand $subcommand.

A subcommand was entered on the command line that was not present in
the subcommands argument to the constructor.

=item Errors parsing command-line options.

An error occurred when asking GetOpt::Long to process command-line
options.

=item Attempt to add duplicate option $optionname.

A module tried to add an option that had already been added (presumably
by another module).

=item Internal error. Invalid option package $optionspec specified...

A module tried to add an option package that does not exist in
Actium::O::Cmd (probably a spelling error).

=item Internal error. Duplicate option $this_name specified...

A module tried to add an option that has the same name as one already
submitted.

=back

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

=over

=item * 

Moose

=item *

Actium and its dependencies

=item *

Getopt::Long

=item *

Term::Readkey

=item *

File::HomeDir

=item *

FindBin

=item *

IO::Prompter

=item *

Text::Wrap

=item *

File::Spec

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Aaron Priven <apriven@actransit.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT & LICENSE

Copyright 2016

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of either:

=over

=item *

the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 1, or (at your option) any later version, or

=item *

the Artistic License version 2.0.

=back

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

